# DNS-of-a-Turbulent-Channel-flow-with-Partial-Slip

This research is part of my master's thesis. Friction drag is an essential component of the total drag that restricts the attainable efficiency and performance. The objective of the work is to reduce the friction drag. One of the popular ways to do that is in the domain of active control by the so called oscillating wall methods, where the spanwise oscillations suppresses the turbulence near wall and reduces the drag. Although this is effective, it still falls under active control which means it requires input of energy. The objective of this work is to recreate the same effects of the spanwise forcing method using passive control so that the energy needs can be overcome. In order to do this, the channel wall is seen as a series of alternating slip and no-slip boundary conditions, which when further inclined with respect to freestream direction, it is expected to produce the spanwise forcing of the active control. The aforementioned case has some primary issues such as lack of literature and even a lack of exposure from the perspective of code. Therefore the objective of this work is to analyse a case with abundunt literature which can dictate validity. One such case is a 'uniform streamwise slip', which has been done here using a pseudo-spectral DNS. The results of drag reduction have been computed by a two-fold procedure and compared with literature. A theoretical prediction of drag reduction is also reported for an extra hint of validation. Then, the statisitcs are analysed with drag reduction in mind. Various statistics give hints on how the drag has reduced, how the turbulence has been shifted away from the wall resulting in a shift of the mean profile, which has also been verified with a computation from another literature. Finally, the work not only informs how the drag is reduced but also dictates validity in such a pseudo-spectral DNS code. 

A complete documentation and a presentation is provided with the complete code that was used
